# Rust

* **Status:** accepted
* **Deciders:** [delucca](https://github.com/delucca/)
* **Date:** 2021-06-21

## Context and Problem Statement

The first major decision regarding our project is defining our primary programming language. The tool we're building is primarily a command-line tool. Also, since this is a side-project (at least for now), the programming language should be interesting enough to motivate me to work in the project.

This tool is going to be used in computers with high loads. So, the final binary size and the required amount of resources should be small enough to avoid impacting the plotting speed.

Since the project is just starting, it is hard to know the future requirements that we should face. But, I see clearly that we could implement a GUI, or even a web interface, in a near future. So, the programming language should allow us to modularize our program properly, creating different specialized scopes.

## Decision Drivers <!-- optional -->

* Fast and small, to avoid impacting plotting speed
* An interesting language (something that I want to learn/improve)
* Be able to modularize the project properly

## Considered Options

1. Rust
2. Python
3. Go

## Decision Outcome

Chosen **option 1**, because Rust has a pretty impressive performance, with small final binaries, which is something that could potentially improve the usage of our tool. Also, Rust is a language that I've been waiting the perfect time to apply. It is pretty clear for anyone in the community that command-line tools are where Rust shines the most, so that's a pretty good fit with our project.

### Positive Consequences <!-- optional -->

* Our tool would be really fast
* We can use some primitives and complex structures from the computer
* It is extremely easy to modularize
* I have a huge interest to learn this language, which can motivates me

### Negative Consequences <!-- optional -->

* It's a complex language
* Probably we should lack of collaborators in the near future
